# Techdata

> Source: https://problemkaputt.de/everynes.htm
> Section: Techdata

Tech Data 
**Overall Specs**

CPU 2A03 - customized 6502 CPU - audio - does not contain support for decimal

The NTSC NES runs at 1.7897725MHz, and 1.662607MHz for PAL.

NMIs may be generated by PPU each VBlank.

IRQs may be generated by APU and by external hardware.

Internal Memory: 2K WRAM, 2K VRAM, 256 Bytes SPR-RAM, and Palette/Registers

The cartridge connector also passes audio in and out of the cartridge, to allow
for external sound chips to be mixed in with the Famicom audio.

**Original Famicom (Family Computer) (1983) (Japan)**

60-pin cartridge slot, with external sound-input, without lockout chip.

Two joypads directly attached to console, Joypad 1 with Start/Select buttons,
Joypad 2 with microphone, but without Start/Select. 15pin Expansion port for
further controllers. Video RF-Output only.

"During its first year, people found the Famicom to be unreliable, with
programming errors and freezing rampant. Yamauchi recalled all sold Famicom
systems, and put the Famicom out of production until the errors were fixed. The
Famicom was re-released with a new motherboard."

**Original NES (Nintendo Entertainment System) (1985) (US, Europe, Australia)**

Same as Famicom, but with slightly different pin-outs on  cartridge slot, and
controllers/expansion ports: Front-loading 72-pin cartridge slot, without
external sound-input on cartridge slot, without microphone on joypads, with
lockout chip.

**Newer Famicom, AV Famicom (1993-1995)**

60-pin cartridge slot, with external sound-input, without lockout chip.

Includes NES-style joystick connectors, plus the original 15pin Famicom
Expansion port. Doesn't have microphone. Video AV-Output only.

**Newer NES (1993-1995)**

Top-loading 72-pin cartridge slot, without external sound-input, without
lockout chip. Poorer video signal than old NES. Video WHAT?-output only.

**VS Unisystem**

Arcade Machine. Coin-detect inputs, eight Dip-switches, different palette.

**Play Choice 10**

Arcade Machine with 10 cartridge slots. Uses Z80 as second CPU.
